# Resume

<a href="gnorman7.github.io/pdfs/Resume_MostRecent.pdf" target="_blank">Resume PDF link (Opens in Browser).</a>

# Philosophy of Education
A huge purpose of my high school education was to prepare for my university education, and correspondingly, my university education should prepare me for a future career. There are both concrete and subtle ways in which my university education will aid in me having a successful career. Obviously, by having a degree and a good GPA I will be more appealing to potential hiring companies and graduate schools (although graduate schools would serve as another step to an employer). An engineering degree will be more solid proof of my intelligence and hard-work, even to non-engineering companies.

I decided to major in Aerospace Engineering primarily due to my interest in aerodynamics, as flight has always fascinated me. Along the same lines, I am pursuing at least a minor in Applied Mathematics as aerodynamics, like much else, relies heavily on higher-level math. Regardless of my interest in aerodynamics, I likely would have still pursued mathematics, hoping to have moments similar to understanding the derivative for the first time.

Further, I aim to acquire implicit skills and qualities that cannot be included on a resume as easily. Most importantly, I hope to develop better leadership and people skills. I believe that in doing this, I will secondarily build my hireability. I plan to accomplish this by seeking definable leadership positions (e.g. “Avionics Lead”) and by stepping up as a leader within the countless group projects of the Aerospace and Applied Mathematics departments (ASEN and APPM). While I believe that working within aerospace will keep my interest, I also hope that through my education I will learn more specifically what I want to do, whether that is working within aircraft design or computational fluid dynamics, writing code or designing systems. I plan to learn more about myself in this way by delving into these various areas through internships, research, and programs, in addition to the built-in exposure I will receive through required curriculum.

# Writing and Coursework Examples
This assignment is MATLAB code written for Aerodynamics - <a href="gnorman7.github.io/pdfs/Matlab_Main_CA4_Norman_Grant.pdf" target="_blank">Analysis of 3D Wings (Opens in Browser)</a>
. It considers a specific trapezoidal wing with aerodynamic and geometric twist, and calculates the lift. It also analyzes the effect of aspect ratio and taper ratio on the span efficiency factor.

This assignment is a lab report, again, for Aerodynamics - <a href="gnorman7.github.io/pdfs/Report_EXP_Norman_Grant.pdf" target="_blank">Experimental Aerodynamics Analysis (Opens in Browser)</a>. The report examines the formation of the 2D wake behind a cylinder and a NACA airfoil. The analysis combines many large datasets from wind-tunnel testing.

Lastly, this assignment is one of many weekly assignments for Aircraft Dynamics, specifically investigating lateral controls of a fixed-wing aircraft - <a href="gnorman7.github.io/pdfs/Grant_Norman_Assignment_11.pdf" target="_blank">Analysis of Lateral Controls (Opens in Browser)</a>. The assignment considers the response of the airplane to small disturbances away from a desired flight condition. Further, various closed-loop linear controls are implemented, and the resulting lateral dynamic stability is similarly analyzed.

# Internships and Work

## Space Grant - RocketSatX-13

During the school year from October 2018 to December 2019, I worked on a project that will be deployed to space. The project is to test and characterize a new idea for a deployable boom, for astronautical applications. The program is sponsored by Colorado Space Grant (which is funded by NASA) at CU, and by a local industry partner, Roccor.

For the first year, I worked on designing the avionics system for the payload, which is to be launched aboard a sounding rocket in the summer of 2020. This involved performing various trade studies for the components, outlining the power distribution system, and describing the command & data handling system. In all, the system was designed to have two video cameras, one camera for photos, a wireless IMU, and a motor. An electrical schematic was created, along with other interface control documents for the flight providers (Wallops Flight Facility). For spring 2019, I worked as Avionics Lead, managing subteam meetings and taking responsibility for the overall performance of the subteam (consisting of 4 students).

In fall 2019, I transferred to the Science Lead, again managing a subteam of 3 people in total. I directed the team in how we would best analyze the data to verify and characterize deployment of our boom system. Specifically, I spent a good deal of time diving into the dynamics of the boom, and creating various models of the system. I modelled the motion of a hypothetical deployment, and used this model to help with analysis of the IMU data. By considering the underlying dynamical behavior of the system, I was able to adjust the IMU data to account for drift, and obtained positional data that matched the theoretical model. I also began using data from the two cameras to calculate the position of various points on the  boom.

Both my work on the avionics and on the science teams were for common aerospace uses. I wish to transfer what I learned on the avionics team to better understand and design other flight hardware and software. Similarly, I want to further apply the experience in dynamics and data analysis to other dynamical systems, such as aircraft. Further, by working on a small team (~10 students) with an industry partner, I gained general insight into teamwork and working in the aerospace industry.


## Lockheed Martin - Collaborative Human-Immersive Laboratory Virtual Reality Programming

In the summer of 2019, I worked on software called __CHILNet__, which is a tool for visualizing CAD models in a more life-like environment. Specifically, I worked on improving the graphics of this system, beginning with the shader and diving into other areas such as occlusion culling, adaptive quality, mesh decimation, and draw batching. This involved working in Unity and C#, writing shader code for the GPU, and analyzing CPU and GPU performance. Overall, I gained a basic understanding of graphics, game design, and performance optimization. I hope to apply these learnings in optimization and GPU programming to Computation Fluid Dynamics. Similarly, I want to eventually create simulations that may also use Unity or another game engine.

## LabJack Corporation - Computer Science
From November 2017 to August 2018, I worked at LabJack, a measurement and automation company that designs high quality data acquisition devices. I worked on the software side, converting and writing code examples in a plethora of different languages. These examples were specifically for customers to use, so readability was heavily focused. For instance, a set of examples showed how to configure up to 107 counter lines, recording how many times the connected voltage changed logic levels. I used Java, Lua, C, and Python in my work. I also tested outgoing hardware by using LabVIEW programs. This provided a start to basic electrical engineering, stressed the importance of good documentation and formatting, and introduced me to many different programming languages.